---
icon: material/cloud-check-outline
---

# AWS CLI Intro

**Difficulty**: :fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star:<br/>
**Direct link**: [aws101 terminal](https://hhc22-wetty.kringlecon.com/?&challenge=aws101&id=a0dafcb2-c258-4260-a314-c935cdbfaf0a&area=level4)


## Objective

!!! question "Request"
    Try out some basic AWS command line skills in this terminal. Talk to Jill Underpole in the Cloud Ring for hints.

??? quote "Jill Underpole"
    Umm, can I help you?<br/>
    Me? I'm Jill Underpole, thank you very much.<br/>
    I'm working on this here smoke terminal.<br/>
    Cloud? Sure, whatever you want to call it.<br/>
    Anyway, you're welcome to try this out, if you think you know what you're doing.<br/>
    You'll have to learn some basics about the AWS command line interface (CLI) to be successful though.


## Hints

??? hint "AWS Whoami?"
    In the AWS command line (CLI), the Secure Token Service or [STS](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/sts/get-caller-identity.html) has one very useful function.


## Solution

You may not know this, but AWS CLI help messages are very easy to access. First, try typing:
`$ aws help`

`aws help`

Great! When you're done, you can quit with q.
Next, please configure the default aws cli credentials with the access key `AKQAAYRKO7A5Q5XUY2IY`, the secret key `qzTscgNdcdwIo/soPKPoJn9sBrl5eMQQL19iO5uf` and the region `us-east-1`.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-config

`aws configure` and fill out the form

Excellent! To finish, please get your caller identity using the AWS command line. For more details please reference:
`$ aws sts help`
or reference:
https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/sts/index.html

`aws sts get-caller-identity`

Great, you did it all!


!!! done "Answer"
    Follow the instructions outlined above.


## Response

!!! quote "Jill Underpole"
    Wait, you got it done, didn't you?<br/>
    Ok, consider me impressed. You could probably help Gerty, too.<br/>
    The first trick'll be running the Trufflehog tool.<br/>
    It's as good at sniffing out secrets as I am at finding mushrooms!<br/>
    After that, it's just a matter of getting to the secret the tool found.<br/>
    I'd bet a basket of portobellos you'll get this done!
