---
icon: material/ethereum
---

# Exploit a Smart Contract

**Difficulty**: :fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star:<br/>
**Direct link**: [boredsporcrowboatsociety website](https://boredsporcrowboatsociety.com/)


## Objective

!!! question "Request"
    Exploit flaws in a smart contract to buy yourself a Bored Sporc NFT. Find hints for this objective hidden throughout the tunnels.

??? quote "Luigi"
    Psst. Hey, slick - over here. Myeah.<br/>
    You look like a sucker ahem I mean, savvy..<br/>
    I got some exclusive, very rare, very valuable NFTs for sale..<br/>
    But I run a KringleCoin-only business. Kapeesh?.<br/>
    Ever buy somethin' with cryptocurrency before?.<br/>
    Didn't think so, but if you wheel and deal with ya' pal Luigi here, now you can!.<br/>
    But we're currently in pre-sale, and you gotta be on the list. Myeah, see?.<br/>
    BSRS NFTs are a swell investment. They'll be worth a pretty penny, and that's a promise..<br/>
    So when they're purchasable, you better snatch 'em up before the other boneheads ahem I mean, eggheads do..<br/>
    I got a business to run. You can't buy nothin' right now, so scram. Kapeesh?


## Hints

??? hint "Merkle Tree Arboriculture"
    You're going to need a [Merkle Tree](https://decentralizedthoughts.github.io/2020-12-22-what-is-a-merkle-tree/) of your own. Math is hard. [Professor Petabyte](https://youtu.be/Qt_RWBq63S8) can help you out.

??? hint "Plant a Merkle Tree"
    You can change something that you shouldn't be allowed to change. [This repo](https://github.com/QPetabyte/Merkle_Trees) might help!


## Solution

WalletAddress: `0x94Ed1aA02cd89d73f9c11C156241e7c5Ec981D93`
Key: `0x792dc07706af428cc447d03df780dae881f84737f20c51b7ad7a307b0d4dd7ce`
Presale address: `0xe8fC6f6a76BE243122E3d01A1c544F87f1264d3a`

The root hash, found in `bsrs.js`, is `0x52cfdfdcba8efebabd9ecc2c60e6f482ab30bdc6acf8f9bd0600de83701e15f1`. We can generate our own root hash with the repo code for our wallet address and then replace the root hash in the website JS code so it passes validation.

```
Root: 0x888856bc24d1b1d29efbbe11252822381fc6827aed392db58c423b3262309594
Proof: ['0x5380c7b7ae81a58eb98d9c78de4a1fd7fd9535fc953ed2be602daaa41767312a']
```

NFT link: https://boredsporcrowboatsociety.com/TOKENS/BSRS13
```
{"name": "BSRS Token #000013", "description": "Official Bored Sporc Rowboat Society Sporc #000013", "image": "https://boredsporcrowboatsociety.com/TOKENS/TOKENIMAGES/BSRS13.png", "external_url": "https://boredsporcrowboatsociety.com/TOKENS/BSRS13", "token_id": 13}
```

Downloading blocks from the blockchain that contain a reference either to the BSRS wallet address '0xe8fC6f6a76BE243122E3d01A1c544F87f1264d3a' or 'BSRS_nft.sol', using a rough timestamp estimate to determine the nearest block to start searching from, we can find the 4 transactions involved in our NFC purchase:

- approval of the 100KC money transfer to the BSRS wallet
- actual 100 KC transfer to the BSRS wallet
- presale_mint function call with our generated root hash and proof values
- 100 KC transfer back to our wallet for completing the challenge

The root hash and proof values are stored in the blockchain as bytes which we can convert back to their hex representation using something like Python:

```
>>> b'\x88\x88V\xbc$\xd1\xb1\xd2\x9e\xfb\xbe\x11%("8\x1f\xc6\x82z\xed9-\xb5\x8cB;2b0\x95\x94'.hex()
'888856bc24d1b1d29efbbe11252822381fc6827aed392db58c423b3262309594'
>>> b'S\x80\xc7\xb7\xae\x81\xa5\x8e\xb9\x8d\x9cx\xdeJ\x1f\xd7\xfd\x955\xfc\x95>\xd2\xbe`-\xaa\xa4\x17g1*'.hex()
'5380c7b7ae81a58eb98d9c78de4a1fd7fd9535fc953ed2be602daaa41767312a'
```

What this means is that if you searched through the blockchain to find the root hash and proof values that other players submitted for the NFC presale, you would have noticed all of them are different from eachother and from the actual root hash. Another nice hint to leverage!

```shell
❯ python find_bsrs_blocks.py --start-from 28120 --query 'BSRS_nft.sol' --query '0xe8fC6f6a76BE243122E3d01A1c544F87f1264d3a' -o ./mytest/theblocks
[-] 2022-12-11T19:56:51 - Searching for 'BSRS_nft.sol'
[-] 2022-12-11T19:56:51 - Searching for '0xe8fC6f6a76BE243122E3d01A1c544F87f1264d3a'
[-] 2022-12-11T19:56:51 - Starting search at block #28120
[+] 2022-12-11T19:57:03 - Ehrmagherd, we found one at #28101!
[!] 2022-12-11T19:57:03 - Still busy, checking block #28100
[+] 2022-12-11T19:57:04 - Ehrmagherd, we found one at #28100!
[+] 2022-12-11T19:57:06 - Ehrmagherd, we found one at #28095!
[!] 2022-12-11T19:58:00 - Still busy, checking block #28000
```


!!! done "Answer"
    Follow the steps outline above


## Response

!!! quote "Luigi"
    What!? How'd you get on the list? What's that? You's a double agent, and you're actually workin' for us?<br/>
    I don't know if I buy that, but you're on the list, so... myeah.<br/>
    Somethin' about this ain't sittin' right with me, but there's no reversing transactions with cryptocurrency.<br/>
    That NFT is yours to keep, but if I find out you're lyin' to me, Palzari's gonna pay you a visit. Kapeesh?

!!! "Chorizo"
    Well...I...never...<br/>
    How was a plebeian such as yourself granted access to the pre-sale?<br/>
    I present thee with a proffer to purchase the NFT you've acquired for twice the price.<br/>
    Hwhat? You shan't vend to me? Have you any idea who I am?<br/>
    You just refused the abhorrent Count Chorizo!<br/>
    I shall ensure you are nevah able to transact with that NFT agayn!

!!! "Slicmer"
    Hmph... this is so boring...<br/>
    "This is a serious task" he said, "not a sporc headbutting-party" he said.<br/>
    "Mess this up, Slicmer, and I'll tie a rock to your feet and throw you down a well!" he said.<br/>
    I think this job was just to keep me out of his way. Luigi thinks I'm a blockhead.<br/>
    Well I think he's a -- Huh? Wait a minute...<br/>
    Hey! Boss! I think I see somethin'!
