# Clone with a Difference

**Difficulty**: :fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star:<br/>
**Direct link**: [intro terminal](https://hhc22-wetty.kringlecon.com/?&challenge=intro&id=b6468a6b-9235-45f6-ad07-a67a07fe1209)


## Objective

!!! question "Request"
    Clone a code repository. Get hints for this challenge from Bow Ninecandle in the Elfen Ring.

??? quote "Bow Ninecandle"
    Well hello! I'm Bow Ninecandle!<br/>
    Have you ever used Git before? It's so neat!<br/>
    It adds so much convenience to DevOps, like those times when a new person joins the team.<br/>
    They can just clone the project, and start helping out right away!<br/>
    Speaking of, maybe you could help me out with cloning this repo?<br/>
    I've heard there's multiple methods, but I only know how to do one.<br/>
    If you need more help, check out the [panel of very senior DevOps experts](https://youtu.be/vIQY_FH1SVk).


## Hints

??? hint "HTTPS Git Cloning"
    There's a consistent format for Github repositories cloned [via HTTPS](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone). Try converting!


## Solution

??? abstract "Welcome message"
    We just need you to clone one repo: `git clone git@haugfactory.com:asnowball/aws_scripts.git`<br/>
    This should be easy, right?<br/>
    Thing is: it doesn't seem to be working for me. This is a `public` repository though. I'm so confused!<br/>
    Please clone the repo and `cat` the `README.md` file.<br/>
    Then `runtoanswer` and tell us the last word of the README.md file!

Replace the Git protocol with HTTPS by converting the command to `git clone https://haugfactory.com/asnowball/aws_scripts.git`. The last word of the `README.md` file in the `aws_scripts` folder is "maintainers".

!!! done "Answer"
    `maintainers`


## Response

!!! quote "Bow Ninecandle"
    Wow - great work! Thank you!<br/>
    Say, if you happen to be testing containers for security, there are some things you should think about.<br/>
    Developers love to give ALL TeH PERMz so that things "just work," but it can cause real problems.<br/>
    It's always smart to check for excessive user and container permissions.<br/>
    You never know! You might be able to interact with host processes or filesystems!
